1. Compensation structure - base pay
2. performance bonus.
3. RSUs and stock bonus - how does the vesting work? will there be refreshers? what is it tied to.
4. performance reviews

n. sign-on bonus and relocation bonus in the end.
 - WFH policy and relocation in future. 
Discuss the details of the offer.
May I know the compensation range synopsys is offering for this band in Oregon? I did a market survey and spoke to few of my friends. I reviewed the compensation across EDA industries, formal R&D staff profiles, and also considering my experience of 7 years at Intel, a Master's and a PhD. I just have a rough number as to what is a
competitive  pay is for this position and my skillset. However, I would prefer you giving me an offer first, and as long as its competitive and is keeping up with my market value 
I am open to discussing things that we both can agree upon.

keeps pushing - Yes Jeff, I hear you and I agree it's important that we are on the same page  on this. But to be frank, I am more comfortable with you offering a number which aligns with the teams budget and I am ok to discuss anything that you have to offer as long as its competitive enough. 

Fine - I know that an average staff level engineer makes a base of 160K/year. So, I feel that's a good place to start.  

Right now I am talking to other companies and there are ongoing interviews with Cadence, Apple, and Nvidia. 

Do you have an offer - Yes, I do have a verbal offer from Intel. My old boss back from India has moved here and manages two teams - one in Oregon and one in Folsom and considering my skillset and experience, he is keen to have me back and is offering me a grade equivalent to a senior staff position here at Synopsys. They are still trying to negotiate and nothing has been finalized yet. So, I can't divulge any specifics or details. Having said that, I am not too keen on Intel's offer and my priority is Synopsys over any of these companies and the reason being the knowledge pool in this team and the kind of problems that are being solved here. I am determined to build my career in the backend tool development and not just using these tools to solve some mundane problems. And that's why I was hoping that we could work something out which can keep both of us happy. 

And I did ask for the feedback from all the interviews that I attended, and they all acknowledge the diverse skillset that I bring to the table. 
And to be honest with you, all the companies that I am interviewing also acknowledged on another aspect that not many
people possess specialization in formal hardware verification anymore, specifically symbolic computer algebra which is considered a niche field. And when I completed my internship with the team, I was told that my skillsets are a great value add to the team and the specialization is directly related to the challenges in the tool chain and missing links in terms of skillset in the team.  Given my 7 years of experience across various aspects of verification and formal verification focused research in PhD combined with software skillset. I feel I am bringing in a diverse skillset to the table and there's no better place than synopsys and specifically this team to contribute, learn, and grow. And I am glad you guys agree that I am a good fit as well, else we wouldn't be having this conversation and that's why I am really hoping that we can find something that we can both agree upon.
advantage - That's another advantage since I can be hand-on as soon as I join since I already worked with the team and am used to the environment without any ramp-up time.

emotional card - 
For the last 5 years during my PhD, I have hardly saved anything given the cost of living and low stipends. Moreover, I am looking at this offer as a long term commitment in terms of work and I want to take this commitment seriously. That's the reason I am even planning to buy a house by the end of next year in Hillsboro. I really appreciate you putting together this offer, however, there are a couple of things related to base and stocks that I am unsatisfied with. And that's why I am hoping we could do something to improve these aspects of the compensation.
family - maybe !! 
will need to discuss it with my fiance since we are planning to move in together to Oregon.


closing - 
Thank you, I appreciate your time and effort in putting together this offer. I will look over the details and think it over. 
I'll reach out to you if I have any questions. Again, thank you for your time, I'll be in touch. 

 


